The next attribute is problem reporting and that's defined as a call
center and issue tracking system that's used to log,
manage, remediate, and report all issues.
A detailed example would be the call center receives calls from 6:00
AM to 6:00 PM Monday through Friday or the customer can log their
issues directly at the following URL.
That's how we define then problem reporting and
what the customer can do about it.
The next attribute is monitoring and reporting.
So the manager, you,
of the sales apps is responsible for monitoring and
reporting on the sales systems.
And the detailed example would be that I provide weekly
written status reports to the customers as well as conduct a
quarterly customer planning meeting.
The next attribute is consequences, in other words, where the buck stops.
And as a manager of the sales apps you're responsible
to remediate any customer feedback, complaints,
and issues.
And the example details would be they could call the
manager of the sales apps anytime, which is you,
and also the manager will work with my management,
the business, steering groups, et cetera,
for any remediation options.
So again,
on the left has always been kind of the what and on the right
is examples of how you'll implement that.
In the final example I want to talk about constraints.
These are typically things you are not going to do or might
limit your service or product offerings.
For example, one of the items is 24 hour support is not provided.
The second is you have a budget of only 200 hours per week for development,
those are constraints.
Some other details would be special case off-hour support can be scheduled.
Okay that's good, the customer may like that.
And also additional budget can be used for adding contractor resources.
Now in all these examples I've given over the last several slides,
these are a subset of the attributes that you may use,
you may come up with other attributes that you'd like to add.
And of course, for each of these attributes I've talked about,
I've gone pretty light weight, but you get the idea,
this helps lay out what it is you do and how you do it.
This will set and manage expectations with the customers.
Now I'd like to give you a little guidance about how to write these SLAs.
On this slide we'll cover some general guidance on how you
might use or apply SLAs on your organization.
Now informal definitions of services or lack therefore tend to cause
customers to perceive their expectations are not being met.
Formal definitions tend to make known more clearly what is
expected from you and therefore cause customers to perceive
that their expectations are being met,
assuming you are delivering the same service level in either case.
Of course SLAs help clarify expectations.
Hey if it's all written down, jointly understood, things should be pretty clear.
It's basically a contract.
Now SLAs may work better for external services that you need.
In other words,
you hire a consulting company or a contracting company
and they're going to work for you,
make sure there's an SLA so you can hold them accountable.
If you don't use them with your customers,
you might consider using the SLAs for outside work you need.
Next, SLAs may be a bit too overwhelming for some IT teams and their customers.
They may be a bit too formal,
too picky and sometimes can create an area of antagonism.
Be careful in their use for internal customers,
a potential problem, formalism,
can create an atmosphere of uncomfortableness in your working relationship.
It might degrade trust even.
In fact,
it might be that you use an SLA with one customer group
and in another no SLA is even needed.
You can choose either one.
But for external customers, I would recommend using them.
Maybe try using a light weight approach,
almost like I did in my example, of most of the categories we discussed.
And maybe not too detailed,
more general working guidelines so you can still set expectations,
but not beat them over the head with them.
They may be based on the type of customer you have too.
If they are more forgiving then maybe you don't need so much detail.
If they are extremely challenging, very challenging to manage,
then layout an SLA to help contain and manage the relationship.
If you follow the model presented,
you have a nice PowerPoint deck here to mark it,
if you will, or share with others,
about what you do and how you deliver to the necessary standards.
So whether it is signed or agreed to or not,
you have a nice approach on how to write down and
represent to others what you and your team do.
This is very important.
Now let's pivot to customer service.
So how is your customer service?
Oh, you think really that good?
Well how you do know?
Let's talk about customer service in the next section and how you can measure it.